---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: October 17, 2016 
author:
  display_name: cqwww
  login: cqwww
  email: kris@ideawave.ca
  url: ‘’
author_login: cqwww
author_email: kris@ideawave.ca
categories:
- Vancouver
tags:
- Projects
- Vancouver
---

#### Attendees 

* Kris - open resume format online (LinkedIn killer)
* Reese - good at helping people with ideas!
* G-Anne - term to replace college dropout
* Rizwan - no ideas
* Alanna - no ideas
* Kamen - IT dude looking for online business ideas
* David - pros/cons magazine that exists!
* Tamsin - no idea
* Dee - afterlife services
* Alberto
* Andrew

#### Kris - LinkedIn Killer
* No one is happy with LinkedIn right now, but the people exist there
* There exists alternatives to social media platforms, but better options just don't have the billion people
* Open resume format: everything that are included in resumes
* Skills: sliding scale - reviews on this scale based on people who have worked with you
* @ LinkedIn: clean up skills that other people assigned you at 50 cap
* Valid only if you’re shown as a colleague
* Alanna: A lot of people on LinkedIn that I don’t like who I haven’t worked with
* People on the site + people you worked with!
* Problem: during hiring, can’t trust any of the skills on your profile 
* Dee: thesis on social networking
* 8 close ties at any one time that you would recommend per person
* Referral platform 
* Reputation element based on recommendation
* Rating on how much you vouch for that particular skill
* Business contacts 
* Kris: validating people who have worked with you, not necessarily friends
* Validation: average of 3 people have picked you for that skill for it to come up
* Alanna: What would the appeal be?
* Kris: employers get to dictate, employers validate employees
* Alanna: Glass door - employers are posting
* Kris: pay for employer account on LinkedIn, can look for keywords as a skill
* Get thousands of results → not useful
* Rizwan: core is the validation of the skill
* Current employer is interested in this, rating you right now
* In the future, could take it out
* Need employers use it for the performance review
* Alanna: people don’t want to give references anymore
* Kris: people can’t due to legal risk, employers only validate the time of your employment
* Kris: Find employers who have the employee searching problem, anyone who hires regularly
* Especially tech people
* Introduce me to them!
* Andrew: HR departments are a cost centre, not a profit centre
* Dee: values matrix as well as a skills matrix?
* Kris: a lot of tools for specific niches exist right now
* E.g. Duolingo score
* Plugins show up on the website
* Kris: LinkedIn has the ability to say we’re colleagues and give them a skill
* Tamsin: this is more for hard skills, harder to validate soft, subjective skills 
* Problem: how to judge skills?
* Kris: not trying to create a social network other than the people you’ve worked with before
* An extra filter 
* Just tech, just Vancouver for frequent hiring
* Dee: getting some positive thing for good recommendation or a stick for recommending people who don’t show that skillset → personal stake 
* Andrew: similar company for students called Ripen 
* University professors linked up companies that have small assignments and make it class assignments
* Dee: how North American way of testing 

#### G-Anne

* Dropped out of UBC cause of mental health issues
* Made a blog
* Went viral
* NA universities putting money in to mental health 
* But not solving the root of the problem which is the way the sysytem is set up
* Advocating a systems change
* 25 people from UBC followed up with me
* Tryin to make it into a project with a key group of people
* What were the gaps and flaws?
* At ubc, there’s a super competitive culture. 50k undergrad students, accepting more and more international students every year. Very competitive academically plus a lot of extra-curricular activities as a culture at UBC
* Glorification of overworking
* There needs to be alternative way to get grades, e.g, being able to give submissions for assignments/exams in alternative ways
* I want to create academic flexibility
* I want to educate people on academic policy. There’s a lot of research, but it’s not communicated.
* People like me aren't alone. I want to bring a community. I want to connect these driven individuals and connect them to mentors and entrepreneurs to students who have not been brainwashed by the system
* I need a name instead of dropout
* The current course load is 4-6 courses which is insane. On top of it, students have to work on top + have to extracurriculars.
* I want people to realise that people have different styles of learning. 
* A lot of people are researching this, but no implementation of these new ideas
* Kris: After we spoke last week about Self-Design. A self designed education system for yourself. I spoke to the executive director today. They are HUGE. Comply with the ministry of education requirements but let you design your own education. Its K-12. In Washington state they’re doing post-secondary. Made a virtual introduction
* David: Do you have any sense what UBC or others will say to what you’re trying to do? 
* Hoping UBC hires me to change policy. I want to use my viralness to do this.
* Dee - Try something that has both a negative + positive connotation like Lemon. Make Lemon an acronym
* Andrew: Is there a measurement of ROI on academia? Is it beneficial to do academia?
* Dee - Another word is “Driven” like driven out but also driven. 
* Dee - Lemon for a Sweet and Sour approach
* Rizwan: Leverage Points in Systems: http://donellameadows.org/archives/leverage-points-places-to-intervene-in-a-system/
* G-Anne: Problem is that Post-secondary education is for Academia but people thinks they need it for a job. But you have to go through this mentally challenging environment just to do academics to get a job.
* G-Anne: People feel like they HAVE to do this
* Rizwan: The university is setup for research but for people go to it for Jobs
* Andrew: University is a business
* Kris: What industries that exist where you don’t need specific university education to succeed
* Rizwan: I got all my jobs from projects - not just from my degree
* David: To get UBC to change itself, it’s gonna take the rest of your life. What you can do is get media to look at it. 
* Rizwan: Look into Ashoka Changemaker Campus designation that focuses on changing systems
* Kris: Right now you don’t have credibility. You’re a thorn in UBC’s side right now. Set up a board where you could have an objective measure before you talk to anyone at UBC
* Kris: Right now it’s volatile for me to make an intro to someone higher up?
* Dee: Focus on how Universities can succeed. I want to collaborate with people who want to make a change. 
* Dee: Thesis in Europe: Precarious Intellectual - people without any skills beyond the university degree. 
* Kris: Show that you’ve put the time in to make yourself credible and positive.
* G-Anne: I’ve met with everyone right up to the VP of Students. 
* Dee: It’s not fair for the university to just say “bye!”. There should be a continuing responsibility.
* G-Anne: The university knows that they have a responsibility. 
* Dee: Would be interesting to talk to people on DTES to see if they ever went to university, at any given time.
* Dee: “Transient Academic”
* Kris: Ask the people who aren’t there “What would take for them to come back”? Then it’s a financial decision. 
* G-Anne: My biggest asset is the access to knowledge. 
* Andrew: The biggest consulting problem - to make people trust that you can do the work.
* Kris: I know a non-profit that’s looking to hire someone right now. It’s in policy-work. 
* G-Anne: I know all the Lemons want to go to school! I want to be back. I really want to be back. But the system is just not setup for us. They want to go back to school - how do we make it that they can. And that people don’t get forced out as well. 
* David: Monetization way: get grant funding for Beneath One Sky and become the resource at UBC for students who are facing all these difficulties. 
* G-Anne: The easiest way is to work with UBC. Will they pay me?
* Kris: I’ll introduce you to my friend Rana who’s doing a couple of courses. Just have a coffee with her. She’s a professional researcher.

#### Kamen - IT dude online business ideas
* Brief resume: 96-2005 residential small businesses, retrained to go financial services, hated it, starting focusing on linux based systems since 2007/8 
* Don’t think i want to go back to IT
* Trying to find businesses i can use IT 
* Kris: you’re going to use a lot of people to do your work for you, there’s gotta be 1000 people to do your work
* Kamen: people want it but don’t have the willpower to make it through
* Currently can only think of traditional business ideas
* Kris: generational change about all passion or nothing 
* Kamen: I like solving problems 
* Dee: I think the opportunity is to work when/where you want to work, not to reject your 9-5 employment. Working remotely isn’t just working at home.
* Kris: huge challenge in hiring freelancers
* In tech, hire usually on project based, not time
* Hard to hire a freelancer → signal that they’re not going to do the work
* Just want grinders, i don’t care when 
* Results not time/destination
* Dee: objective isn’t scaling back time, most of the time doesn’t feel like grinding
* Kris: it’s about people management 
* Entrepreneurs are terrible and don’t like managing people 
* Great soft skills, HR rockstar!
* Rizwan: getting hired based on flexibility
* Kamen: in-person interview, will emphasize my skills & ability to learn, also open to part-time contract work 
* Dee: need to also decide on what to do with the other 36 hours
* Andrew: it doesn’t feel like I’m working for so long
* Dee: avoiding the compulsion of work
* Working from home vs. in a different space 
* Localsolo.com - more curated 
* Most jobs say “remote okay”
* Upwork is shitty
* Canada: leverage on employment because not enough tech employees 
* Kris: EA applied pressure to the BC government who passed the labour amendment that IT are exempt from overtime 
* Kamen: bring in something minimal doing IT, so that I can work on my side-projects 
* First time having 4 months off and not having to worry about the money
* Starting to find my creativity again 
* Kris: need to differentiate yourself from all of the other people looking for jobs
* Kamen: has been around for a long time, had to solve the problems without the resources to fall back on like Google
* Dee: values matrix could be a differentiator, being a grinder 
* Kamen: been looking at some different online businesses
* Seminar on business ideas 
* Kris: Millionaire fastlane: made more money writing the book than they were in the past 
* Possible business ideas: hiking
* Problem: 10 or 20 day hikes, need to resupply
* Right now: people pack everything and then have a friend ship it out later in time
* A lot of people quit the trails because of the food 
* Automated delivery of this trail food
* Kris: people do these deliveries in South America
* Can do a locker system
* Kamen: people are mailing the food to locations 
* Kamen: current competition
* One-off businesses: want to sell their specific version of trail food 
* Hard to plan 
* Problem: don’t have enough calories 
* Kamen: system that customizes based on the hike & individual
* No site that combines the one-offs into an online warehouse option 
* Based on macros 
* Build the meals for the hikers 
* Labour intensive 
* Dee: model is weight watchers 
* Andrew: partner with MEC and Kapow Now
* David: is there a way to avoid walking into town
* Kris: calories per day - brand one, brand two, brand three
* Kapow Now could sell to you in bulk for the vendors
* Kris: geocaching - get paid doing the trail
Lockable 
* Kamen: Trail angels who like to help hikers
* Get them to pick up the foods - nutrition mule 
* Rizwan: need user-centive approach 
* Interview people on what they want 
* Challenge: what is the experience for the hiker? What are they frustrated with? 
* Kamen: wrong time of year for this 
* Tamsin: back-country trails? 
* Dee: try a small, closed community first 
* Kamen: safety of food is an issue 
* Kamen: 3 different varieties of care packages 
* Vegetarian, meat-lovers 
* Alanna: i don’t care about calories, i want a hot meal 
* Rizwan: Just talk to the community of hikes 
* Kris: can i prepack your meals from you? And what would you pay for it? 
* Claitons wants someone to pack meals for IT guys instead of a hiking context 
* Kamen: prepackaged meals exist in Richmond 
* Kamen: subscription packs cratejoy.com 
* Unique snacks around the world
* Kris: local First Nation meals 
* Graze snacks, naked snacks

#### David 
* http://www.rivendellretreat.org/
* [Seeking Silence] (http://www.theguidebook.ca/seeking-silence/) 

#### Dee - End of Life Care
* Death is a huge industry
* All of us got marketed to shitty graphic design 
* End-of life care industries are environmentally disastrous, don’t have great options
* bereavement checklist: helpful but very soulless 
* Record me now
* Avatar related post-death executable for social media archives 
* TED playlist on death: a different way at looking at death
* Obituaries cost so much money
* Funeral homes publishing to 3 newspapers: extra hundreds of bucks 
* Funeral graphic design business
* Market up compared to funeral homes since it’s a service
* → undercutting the status quo 
* $7000 for a cremation, $320/hour 
* Kris: tree urns
* Kris: [flower halo](http://flowerhalo.com/) on gravestone 
* Andrew: Penn and Teller’s Bullshit has an episode on this 
* Dee: $450 for a pine box for the cremation 
* Dee: or a consultancy to go through the list 
* Kris: Tom is the director of Kearney Funeral Home
* Last funeral home that isn’t under the one parent company in North America
* Dee: are people going to do a google search for graphic design for funerals or partner with funeral homes? 
* Andrew: people don’t know and they just want to get it over with 
* Kamen: Hospice in people who are about to die 
* Kris: yellow pages website - range of options 
* Dee: a directory website for funeral homes 
* Dee: bookmarks to Scotland as a memento from here were pretty great
* Alberto: so you’re trying to add value to the deceased? 
* Dee: how do you beta test a service like this?
* Kris: 5 or 10 points on how important are these on a scale to you? Sliding column 
* Kamen: give it away in the beginning, approach hospices or something 
* Offer the service for free 
* Dee: how do you drive traffic? 
* Dee: no funeral graphic designers in BC, a few in the states 

#### EXTRA
* Dean is starting a podcast on interesting people 
* YVR  Podcasters, Vancouver futurists podcast 
* Workshop series starting October 26th on how to podcast, generate podcast etc. 
At Creative Coworkers 
* Next Wednesday Heart of the City festival in Oppenheimer park

#### Next meeting:
* Alberto - chair 
* Kris - minutes 

