---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: September 5, 2016 
author:
  display_name: Riz
  login: magp
  email: michaelangelgp+code@gmail.com
  url: ''
author_login: magp
author_email: michaelangelgp+code@gmail.com
categories:
- Vancouver
tags:
- Projects
- Vancouver
---

##Ideas Meeting Minutes Monday September 2016

#**Host - Tate**

**Format:**

- Name
- Mini-Intro of your idea
- Go around and discuss your idea


#**Michael - Entrepreneur from Barcelona**

Don’t have an idea today

#**Atif - Electrical Engineer**

Just moved back to Vancouver. Running an R&D dept for a consulting company and our company is exploring new avenues.

Work with infrastructure, etc.


#**Frank - Software Developer**

Part of a meet-up group to get some ideas and make them happen

#**Kris**

- Social Hack Night

- Cold Brew Coffee Popsicle

**Note:**

On meetup.com we’re using pixelcraft

- Right now I’m the only one who can create events. But now we have our own meetup.com group but the bad thing is that there are just a few of us on it.

- Our goal isn’t get huge. My hope is that the admins can manage the teams on meetup.com

- Created a new meetup.com group called data-driven wellness. Want to bring data science to wellness; less magic hand-waving.

- The group will be a meetup and we’ll be doing it in person. 
We have the biofeedback group where we’re learning arduino and we’ll merge the two together.

- Are we going to be self-measurement? or are you going to be more discussing science? 

- The idea is to getting a core group. We want to get the wellness people and get the data people.

- We want to welcome the wellness group. Have them bring hypothesis.

- We have to be constructive with our criticism as well.

- All the hip coffee shops are getting cold brew. Can we make popsicles out of it? My hypothesis is that it’ll take away the bitterness even more..

- What if you add cream? 

- Add MCT - Bulletproof Cold Brew Popsicles

- Would work awesome on summer raves. Has to have trippy colors though!


#**In order to pay for the domain, please donate. It’s just $15/mo**

#**Sunday Social Hack Night**

- Need a better way to be able to do it. 
- Can we do it at Creative CoWorkers
- We have a slack chat so give Riz your email and we can add you!

[Idea Slack Channel](ideawave.slack.com)

- One of the things we have are brands that we want to boycott. We just don’t have the strength in numbers. Is there an app for this? 
Get a reddit based system to boycott things? 

#**Sham Wang**

- New talent in data centre designers for my new company. My idea is broad. Problem: why are some countries that are developed regardless of suffering and difficulty they have acquired. 

- Why are others better? Why are some countries always developing. The answer tfrom the west is that you gotta implement democracy.

- A lot of these countries when they implement democracy, they go to shit anyway! Arab spring, we put in democracy, then we get tens or thousands of more dictators.

- We see people dying every day! just because people were emigrating.

- Treaty of westphalia and the idea of state. The state homogenized over time. 
What has been a issue that there’s a state been implemented on top of an area where there isn’t a homogenized people.

- The whole idea of it is self-government for democracy, but it doesn’t really work. 

- It’s not really anyone’s place to say a country ready for democracy.  

- The US was never supposed to be a democracy.

- Is democracy the end all be all? The line I would draw between good governance and bad governance.
Even Canada doesn’t espouse to be a democracy.

- It’s all about how well places are governed. England and California are an example of letting people the right to make the right decisions.

- Democracy is a modern secular religion and often it’s fascism in disguise. 

- Democracy can never contend with corruption when corruption is widespread and the norm.

- Even the biggest advocates of democracy said it would only work so far is if people were informed.

- It’s all about your relationship with the U.S.

- The internet should bring more direct democracy, but is that a good thing? Steven doesn’t think so…

- People confuse politics with administration. People vote on the administration of their money.

- BC allows for private sector donations.

- Kris to create BoicotCanada subreddit.

- How is boycotting not redundant with a market system? 

- Maybe call it Conscious Canada?

- There’s something called BDS that doesn’t allow import from occupied territories. 
As soon as its organized into a campaign, does it work better?

- We’ll have to make sure that the SEO is legit!

- There’s no way for brands to know that there’s a blip? But there’s a more profound impact if lots of people talk about it.

- 30 day boycott + coordinated campaign. 

- "#ConsciousCanada"

#**Farhan - Software Developer/Electrical Engineer**

- Running ventures in retail and service right now. Think tech is too risky. Don’t have an idea today.
		
#**Steven**

- For people to experience “gird” to sleep on an incline.

- Have to sleep at an angle. Was thinking about a “Bed-Hammock” that will allow people to sleep on an incline.
If you sleep on your left side, it helps.

- “Debugging our lives”

- The idea is that when you have an issue, you post it and someone tries to posts and then someone solves it. 

- Is there a stackoverflow are for your life? 

- There’s hundred of pages of crap! How do you leverage the wisdom for people?
Setting up a knowledge base on topics.

- Reddit, Quora, and Stackoverflow are just attempts at doing this. 

- jetzt - Chrome extension for reader

#**Salwa - Software Engineer @ Quiet.ly**

- Have some things I’m working on in my free time. Been using evernote for a long time; they’re charging money for more devices.

- Wanna dev a small note-taking app. 

- Been using evernote for a long time, for reminders, and everything in my life. Evernote recently said that when you have to use for more devices, you have to pay. I don’t understand that!  Why do they charge for more devices? It makes NO sense to me :/

- Evernote has this one workflow that everyone should follow.  It’s not necessarily flexible for everyone.

- How hard would it be to create a note taking app? 

- [Turtl](Turtl.com) -- Open Source Privacy Focused version of EverNote #CryptoAF

- Maybe it’s a privacy focused thing? For them to charge more - maybe there’s more access points.

- Knowledge management vs workflow?

- Memex is a brain outside of your brain which we haven’t created. 

	- Bullet Journal

	- Whitebook

	- Pinboard

	- Canvas

	- Envyout

	- Taskrabbit

	- Atlassian Products

	- IntelliJ Idea

	- Reduce your commute - it will improve your commute.

	- Ben Franklin’s 13 virtues.

	- Junto - Ben Franklin’s

	- Your posture tells a lot about your health too.

	- The X-Effect - habit formation


#Sentiment measurement tools

[Mood Measurement](http://quantifiedself.com/2012/12/how-is-mood-measured-get-your-mood-on-part-2/)

[20 Emotion Detection APIs](http://nordicapis.com/20-emotion-recognition-apis-that-will-leave-you-impressed-and-concerned/)

#Tate

- Have a startup at VC and just got IRAP funding and would love to find some devs at school right now.

- Idea: Starting a founders coffee for people who have similar problems.

- Also for budding founders.


#Luke 

- Was discussing with Scott to talking about nootropics. What nootropic will get you “Enlightened”?

- Can you take something to relax?

- Muse measures your brainwaves based on categorized thoughts and then lets you get back to your breath.

- Not sure if there’s an SDK

- Early Stage Founders - BiWeekly coffee between founders.


#Riz

- Philosophical idea about the stewardship of Artificial intelligence in the context of society.

- We need to keep AI open as possible for checks and balances. 

- We don’t want to be reliant one a singular tech company? 

- I like the idea of freeing people from the drudgery of life. 

- Google is offering all these tools like tensorflow so they can improve their algorithms and research. 

- If its just allowed to grow unencumbered, unregulated, then we’re pretty fucked aren’t we?

- We as individuals can’t do shit.

- Can we have a technological houdini? Can we use a superstar technologist to show that AI is EVUL? 

- Can we make Watson kill all humans? Bringing intent to AI? What can be bad?

- Trilogy Series - Black Mirror

- It would be interesting to map out the cases that exist right now..

- CRISPR Cast 9 - Open Science Network

- Denmark - Basic Minimum Income

- What about Civil Service and basic income?

An interesting article is “What humans be doing that’s productive post AI?” talk about it next week!

[Cat People vs. Dog People at Facebook!](https://research.facebook.com/blog/cat-people-dog-people/)

#App/Books

- Attached - Gamechanger for Kris
- The Human Condition - Politics of the human
- Wire.com - Communication Tool, Text, Audio, Voice, AND EMOJIS!
- Challenge - Portal to host social challenges to do shit
- IntelliJ Idea - Open Source editor
- Camlistore - a dropbox where you can use the server side shit
- Flir - Heat sensitive sensor
- Seek
- d3.js - data vis
- Disk Inventory X









