---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: July 22, 2019
author:
  display_name: Kris
  login: Kris
  email: kris@ideawave.ca
  url: ‘’
author_login: Kris
author_email: kris@ideawave.ca
categories:
- Vancouver
tags: []
comments: []
---


#### Attendees

* Clayten
* Olusha (minutes)
* Mark
* Oleg
* Shirley
* Ran
* Kris (chair)

#### Minutes

* Where is your most creative space? Discussion.
    * Shower, when I change my route, when travelling, meditation, changing place/space
    * Trauma is a catalyst
    * Not from meetings!
    * Culmination of subconscious and conscious thoughts
    * Changing Experiences
    * Imagine alternate designs by throwing out your defaults/easiest (Clayten)
    * Meditation / not actively thinking about the problem but thinking about something very different
    * PLAY!
    * Time off for neutral / mental health
    * Flexible schedule ... stable income vs caring only 9-5 (if that)
    * Ownership of one's ideas stimulates more
    * MEANING from your ideas -- A BURNING desire to make change in the world

* Kris: Product: Sunvisor in vehicle to handle when driving into a sunset
    * Proposed solution solves the space below the traditional visor and the dashboard for when the sun is there
    * Instead of opaque, uses translucent material like sunglasses that allows full visibility while blocking sun's brightness
    * Use for more than cars, i.e. @home. Creates the ability to see through windows even when sunny
    * Expensive option could be digitally programmed, change dynamically, capture solar energy or redirect it, change polarization when angle os sun is low
    * A simple product that home depot could carry as a dark veneer to replace typical white blinds to allow this.
    * Could also be perforated instead of tinted, or even solar anels
    * Variable polarization LCDs (Clayten)
    * SAD compatible -- leverage the stored light?

* Mark: 
    *  Functional, affordable transportation system
        * Accessible, community-wide consulting
        * Not with the corrupt current PPP model / people / organizations
        * Consensous-driven solution w/ many diverse stakeholders
        * Participation -- Incentivize people
        * Presupposition that progressives want a functional, affordable system, that is safe, and non-polluting.
        * The existing system is corrupt, based on a 4 year election cycle -- it needs a flexible plan for change. How would a 20 or 100 year plan be possible where future governments can't quash it
        * Don't plan for vehicles, plan for land use
        * Hyperloop - teleportation as examples
        * Fundamental character of neighbourhoods built around streets
        * Could we have space elevators connect at the top? (Kris)
            * Perhaps with launchloop technology
* Oleg: Create a company that hires immigrants based on willingness to work hard & make changes
    * 300,000 immigrants to Canada/year. Educated, motivated.
    * Not based on Canadian experience or degrees
    * Corproate structure & economy, HR has own procedures to cover their butts when hiring people such as immigrants
         * e.g. doctor coming from Syria, not not be a doctor here.
     * How to re-occupy people with new skills without heavy investment on their part. NO BIAS
     * Skills-based to share knowledge more fuidly. Hire objectively not subjectively.
         * Kris says [idvpn.ca](https://idvpn.ca) can help if someone builds the resume/application app. 
         * It would make name/gender/age/etnicity etc (biases)
         * It would only show merit/skills
         * The app would require psychometrics as well to de-bias 
     * Getting along in an interview is a lot easier to game and acheive than getting along in a team
     * "Hire for attitude, train for skill"
     * remove terrestrial degrees? Create a global level doctor/lawyer
     * (Kris) instead of fighting system, allow universities to easier offer this upgrade to global level option
     * Value of an immigrant goes up if they can do what they were trained and are experienced to do. Better to help in a hospital than drive a taxi
     * People could choose to pay more for professionals w/ best in the world standards
     * PureNorth, a company in Calgary is private sector, supports nurse practioners
     * Once self soverignty exists, epople will demand efficiency, and optimization of service
     * Google has realized controlling behaviour allows predicting behaviour even easier
     * Governance frameworks - not questions or looked at objectively, or 3rd party audited. This will likely result in revolution or ... anarchy.

* Shirley: 
    * Canada relies too much on the U.S. Canada should do more w/ Asia Pacific than U.S. markets

* Clayten: 
    * Longterm: Create a better outcome for people, without any hippy jargon
    * Daycare to Elder care solution / Cradle to grave -- people work internally to provide services
    * Use bulk buying to do this more communally. 
    * Community for what you know you will need
* Olusha:  
    * How to get the duvet in the duvet cover easily?
   
    
