---
from: 'http://web.archive.org/web/20200205115447/http://archive.ideasmeetings.org/wiki/Apr29,2008'
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Apr 29, 2008
author:
  display_name: cqwww
  login: cqwww
  email: kris@onedaywebsite.ca
  url: ''
author_login: cqwww
author_email: kris@onedaywebsite.ca
date: '2008-04-29'
categories:
- Victoria
tags:
- Apr29
- '2008'
- Victoria
---

## Minutes

* how much heat/energy can we get off human/animal waste?
* 200 foot deep geothermal heated house on Vancouver street, what was the permit process to utilize aqueducts that deep?
* While houses average $220 sq/ft, a guy in Metchosin built his house for $100 sq/ft and off the grid
* 500sq/ft handles human compost
* [BCSEA](http://www.bcsea.org/) ran the tour of energy efficient homes
* Cobb house in North Saanich, a tour every 2nd Sunday
* claw/stray/mud house
* straw requires stucco on both sides with no gaps? As wet straw can ignote
* differential power is coming
* What is the difference of fuel, oil, electricity and wind? 
* What was it last year? 5 years ago?
* A device that measures wind over time, like a power meter
* Unlimited clothes line bylaws in Ontario in order to save power
* storing geothermal heat using "sterling engine"
* How to test optimal geothermal depth (dig to water source then test differential temperature)
* What are the effects of multiple geothermal users; what is the impact of geothermal on its environment? (impacts on soil, water, the frostline)
* "drake landing" near okotoks in Alberta using bore holes to store heat during summer and release during winter; How does this impact its environment? - unknown at this time
* look up link at Vancouver street house that uses supposed non toxic glycol 
* $3500 grant from federal government along with proposed provincial grant
* net metering in BC: sell at 5.4 cents and buy at 8 cents; different in Washington where one can sell at a profit
* buy used photo voltaic cells in California where government is subsidizing cost and purchase to sell over border minus GST
