---
from: 'http://web.archive.org/web/20200205115447/http://archive.ideasmeetings.org/wiki/Feb05,2008'
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Feb 05, 2008
author:
  display_name: cqwww
  login: cqwww
  email: kris@onedaywebsite.ca
  url: ''
author_login: cqwww
author_email: kris@onedaywebsite.ca
date: '2008-02-05'
categories:
- Victoria
tags:
- Feb05
- '2008'
- Victoria
---

## Minutes

As there was no agenda in advance, one member brought a copy of the [Junto
Questions](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Junto#The_Questions)
which we went over.

1)

* The internet has created many pleasurable reading events, perhaps making this question obsolete
* Interesting to see what questions still have value and which have been deprecated
* housing/heating books as one member recently bought a house. Looking into wireless thermostats, is there anything more advanced/stable than x10?
* hepatic interfaces - terminals which you read by feel
* mobile computing - must look away from whatever else you are doing
* **Book** Plasticity of the brain
* upside-down glasses; apparently the brain adapts within an hour
* XS Cargo has bluetooth headsets for $20 this week. What about attaching to your wrist, or behind the ear, or anywhere else with nerve endings. Then get a nearby computer to send text -> morse code (CW) to the device. How long until you can understand what is being sent? Can one get into a position where they can interpret several at once?
* How many wpm does a person average for voice, braille, cw, typing, reading?

2)

* only dirty stories. No. Microsoft vs copyright. 
* Recent cocaine flights that go down, the suggestion they are CIA torture planes. Coincidence of parent company acronym "DBA".
* medium is the message
* blogs -> restrictions 
* media priorities
* masses vs niche

3)

* Vehicle manufacturing plants
* GM in Oshawa
* Ford shut 3 today
* Just-in-time model: no market for failover -- bottom-line vs worker
* It's just business -- mortgage -> writeoff to bankrupcy 
* Once laid off, you realize people are not priority, the bottom-line is. 
* Reallocate to higher position
* Keep the bottom 25% of your society working, or they will kill you and eat you.
* Standard of living is relevant to your environment

4)

* Cheney - Halliburton & War
* Blackwater
* Belinda - Daddy's money (Magna)
* Local techies with infectious greed

5)

* Venture capitalists
* Get a good reference, it's all about reputation and who you know
* Find the richest person you know, use their lawyer/billing 

6)

* Rescuing the [CP Lawn bowling club](http://cplawnbowling.org/)

7)

* Intermporant

8)

* One member completed a month of alcohol detox. Value of temperance < heightened value of intemperance

9)

* Ephedrine hydrochloride

10)

* One mutual acquaintance going to Japan
* One member heading to Edmonton next week to visit in-laws

11)

* Girls looking for servicing 
* City influence

12)

* Many people flying in for privacy and security conference 

13)

* Cousin; RCSS is the same night

14)

* Copyright. 
* Dmitri Skylarov - DeCSS - better left unsaid?
* <member with flailing arms> archery 

15)

* Copyright.
* Lawn bowling
* US Patriot act
* Liberty is evolving
* Loss of liberty is because of stupid people in charge
* All the time, I just don't give a shit. Everytime I watch the US news as well as the Canadian news. 
* Nit picking member is still at the table

16)

* negative action vs. positive action
* What could be done so that everyone would care to elect smart people?
* run by experts vs. political flack

* sweet fuck all, you can do shit
* rifle

17)

* member is a pimp

18)

* nothing wrong with it
* public reputation is what matters
* truth is more important
* one member states they do not ever lie
* social ties?
* Every side has an out anyways

* We ended the meeting here as it was only going downhill.
