---
from: 'http://web.archive.org/web/20200205115447/http://archive.ideasmeetings.org/wiki/Mar04,2008'
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Mar 04, 2008
author:
  display_name: cqwww
  login: cqwww
  email: kris@onedaywebsite.ca
  url: ''
author_login: cqwww
author_email: kris@onedaywebsite.ca
date: '2008-03-04'
categories:
- Victoria
tags:
- Mar04
- '2008'
- Victoria
---

## Agenda

* Order beer
* Open discussion; bring the ideas you're passionate about

## Minutes

* house purchasing discussion
* pirate radio

Asked three members what things they carried on them without warning in
advance:

windows ce device 8 keys (car house condo condo-common laptop) keyfob -
building access wallet - reduced from 20 to 3 cards recently, if not often
used bluetooth headset

business card carrier wallet card wallet notepad passport phone (pda) pager
keys - in wallet (3 wallets in total) 2 usb fobs pens lighter multitool eye
contact holder mininun! knife bag with laptop

keys cell wallet watch camera emergency cd

* two members no longer wear watches now that they have alternative devices that carry the time

Then we discussed what a good geek should carry:

ham radio camera wire copper, stiff flashlight

Then we moved on to what we should have in case we go into a state of
emergency:

9mm/weapon ham radio generator (multi fuel) helium balloon chair zodiac/pull
chain boat tsunami zones? wood fire starter water purification locator beacon
flashlight bank records

* discussed Think [geek t-shirts](http://www.thinkgeek.com/tshirts/)
* [CanSecWest.com](http://www.cansecwest.com/) is coming up

* Member showed up late to show off his battery innovation, made from scratch. [Turquoise Energy](http://turquoiseenergy.com/) battery he calls it.
    
    6.25 volt
    400 amp
    50 amp hours
    312.5 watt hours
    life cycle - indefinite
    
    70-75 dollars in material cost
    
    Should take 7-10 days for materials to integrate before it can be fully tested. Member will present in two weeks time on results and details. 

* gas spectrometer - Where to buy?
* "Thats the trouble wth chemicals, they all do different things"
* Where to get certain chemicals
* How to grind monel, or find monel powder?
* danger/safety with batteries - chance to explode

* For importing use DHL, then USPS, never UPS

* What fun things do you do outside of work? how much time?

1. all of it
2. a lot - 20 hours on projects - information gathering
3. 20-40 hours

1. need a life
2. not happy, but have to eat
3. have a life - it takes a lot of time (5-10 if wife is in town) - lower priority

financial expectations (and others) of our partners is the male expected to
provide (in full) during maternity

* Members discussed business venture greedywalrus.com. and financial models

1. monthly/yearly (cosco)
2. offer the cheapest one that makes me money option
3. advertising model (froogle)
4. sell the ip

* futureshop model

* Will try to organize a Yashy Idea Society online chat
