---
from: 'http://web.archive.org/web/20200205115447/http://archive.ideasmeetings.org/wiki/June08,2011'
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: June 08, 2011
author:
  display_name: cqwww
  login: cqwww
  email: kris@onedaywebsite.ca
  url: ''
author_login: cqwww
author_email: kris@onedaywebsite.ca
date: '2011-06-08'
categories:
- Victoria
tags:
- June08
- '2011'
- Victoria
---

## Contents

1. Agenda
2. Minutes
    2.1. Attending
    2.2. Bitcoin
    2.3. Publicly available searchable criminal and traffic records
    2.4. CIRA election and Membership
    2.5. Online music services
    2.6. RFID chipping
    2.7. Conspiracy conference
    2.8. The Ideas Ideal
    2.9. Hackathon
    2.10. Ideas Victoria Logo
    2.11. Dangerous Precautions
    2.12. One Day Websites Business Idea
    2.13. Lost and Found

## Agenda

Start at 8pm!

* DDoS of FOI
* The [letter](http://archive.ideasmeetings.org/wiki/Letter "Letter")
* Indepedent Media
* RFID chipping of the population 
    * Is it likely?
    * How can we profit from it?
    * Is this a good candidate for a makerspace project
    * [Definition of research](http://gmodcentral.com/dictionary/define.php?word=research) \- note it's about quality, not quantity or gut instinct. 
* [RF/MW radiation concerns](http://www.iaff.org/hs/Resi/CellTowerFinal.htm)
* Conspiracy Conference 
    * goldbugs conference
* Island Cabin Hack-a-Thon
* Logo discussion 
    * [Submission from @GDGeek](http://imgur.com/a/5UhPb)
* The precautionary principle and cell phones as carcinogen - Larry

## Minutes

### Attending

Lots of new people!

### Bitcoin

It's amazing, decentralized, anonymous, can't be stopped or taxed! The silk
road sells banned pharma using bitcoin memorydealers.com accepts bitcoin as
payment (growing list of other accepters here:
[https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Trade](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Trade))
mtgox.com is the main exchange (mega chart:
[https://mtgox.com/trade/megaChart](https://mtgox.com/trade/megaChart)),
also mtred.com is a mining pool affiliated with users of reddit (there are
several other mining pools, deepbit being the largest at present)

Bitcoin network is a p2p network consisting of those computers running the
client software. New bitcoins are awarded to contributors (aka miners) who
also are using their processing power to validate previous transactions stored
in the block chain (which is a ledger of transactions shared across all
clients). Validating the transactions includes a cryptographic proof-of-work
where certain results will be awarded (sort of like a lottery) brand new
bitcoin for successfully 'discovering' the next block in the block chain. Real
time network stats can be viewed at
[http://blockexplorer.com/q](http://blockexplorer.com/q)

Bitcoin resurfaced... in the conversation... Lulzsec have given their bitcoin
address publicly, and a donor gave them $7k in bitcoins recently. Lulzsec have
just taken things down just for fun, and taken down Sony repeatedly.

### Publicly available searchable criminal and traffic records

Jody Patterson's blog A Closer Look [http://www.closer-
look.blogspot.com/](http://www.closer-
look.blogspot.com/) Prov gov has a website showing the criminal record of all
BC residents, driving infractions, back at least as far as 1998 and no full
name is needed for the search:
[https://eservice.ag.gov.bc.ca/cso/esearch/criminal/partySearch.do](https://eservice.ag.gov.bc.ca/cso/esearch/criminal/partySearch.do)

### CIRA election and Membership

Cira membership difficulties Cira is the governing body to regulate all .ca
domain names, internet policy in Canada and more @KevinSMcArthur is running
for election to be on the board. A person must register to be a member of CIRA
ahead of time to vote in the election in September. DNSsec is poorly managed
with root certificates and SSL certificates, and allowing for many security
problems in trusting domains/websites Country code TLD domain seizures are now
being requested, and cira is watching rather than being active with this.
Check out kevinforcira.ca for more information and to sign up for
announcements and key information as the election nears, digitalpolicy.ca has
some information from past meetings regarding Internet policy and more Who
gets to decide who is legal and who isn't

### Online music services

Herb went to GoogleIO and they gave outt Android tablets GoogleMusic is a new
service where you store your music in the cloud, access it on all your devices
by streaming and just by signing in. So what happens with unlicensed music
files, are you turning yourself in just by signing up? Mentioned similar site
called grooveshark lulzsec has been pwning sites just for fun... or the lulz
of it

### RFID chipping

There was a guy about 5 years ago that had one implanted in his wrist and how
doesn't use a key for his car or house These can be ordered online easily just
by searching “RFID body chip” and similar Note that 1/5 of US pop. need food
stamps to live, so it could be easy to force those to have RFID just to get
their food. Possibilities include RFID chipping criminals when they're
released into a community. RFID is usually 10ft range, but can be extended to
30ft with a special antenna Could put scanning points at airports, ferries,
border crossings, and other choke points rfid.org can buy a reader/writer
device for under $500ish Would you be interested in having an implanted RFID?
Benefits are: memberships and entrance to places with memberships. Imagine
something 1mmx3mm in size. Makerspace project to make a card or slim case to
hold a bunch of RFID's, numbered slots to hold all the memberships. Visa and
Mastercard have already implemented RFID cards. Can buy metal wrapper to fit
over a card which is a Faraday cage to protect the rfid so it's not scannable
unless the card is removed from the cage. WSIS recent keynote speaker with a
RFID enabled passport and refused to show it by removing it from its cage to
show to the guards to let him in, and was held up.

### Conspiracy conference

open to people that are conspiracy theorists and have them submit talks
similar to ideawave. It could turn into a very notorious event. There are so
many people out there that have their ideas or beliefs or conspiracies and
could air them and gather like minded people and inform others of the
information. This would be a great way to generate revenue and provide a
sustainable conference At the end of each talk there is some kind of
vote/hands up, where people say whether they think it's true or not, or
conspiracy or not. Each registrant gets a login to vote for each talk they
attend and maybe comment. Fantastic discussion about misc conspiracy theories
arose, some theories, and some... ;)

### The Ideas Ideal

Some summary of the group arose in conversation: Something like: Collaborative
group of extremely critical thinkers, launching ideas into real world projects
that make a positive difference to the world at large. “The purpose of the
Ideas Meetings is to descover our own purpose...” Or, “To choose individually
what matters to us, and that would forward the mission of our group together,
or the theme of our topics. How would we work together to support our
individual goals and humanity at large? Everything seems an inclusive topic,
with inclusive input from individuals which is indicative of critical thinkers
and showing that no one is blindly supporting any ideal; we actually discuss
and consider ideas for/against all ideas, and often times people are swayed in
their original “slant” by considering other “sides” and seeing something new.
There are 3 types of people: those that care only about themselves, their
community, or humanity at large. Taps.bc.ca is a place to register to
volunteer in the community For example, there are starving people in 1st world
countries that are often overlooked in favour of 3rd world country conditions
and starvation. Denmark(?) has set up their national infrastructure in which
every person has a bare minimum income of $30k/yr, and is one approach.

### Hackathon

Looking to organize a Hack-a-thon on Galiano sometime in the summer. Let's
look for middle weekend in each of: July _________________________ (insert
your available dates here) August ______________________ (insert your
available dates here)

### Ideas Victoria Logo

Ideas Victoria logo, let's make our own rather than have an external pro
design one What other objects represent ideas (or vice versa), can we use
puzzle pieces, circuit board letters, put on a background of GVRD or just
downtown or Vancouver Island... registered ideasvic.ca on the spot, hooked it
up with Kris' to provide temporary gracious hosting! You can now go directly
to the Ideas Meetings Victoria Chapter wiki site by visiting: www.ideasvic.ca
email list and collaborative tools coming soon software inkscape is free and
can create SVG files; suggested use for us to create and submit ideas

### Dangerous Precautions

Precautionary measures for potentially dangerous things Regarding wireless, is
there a possible danger, is it possible there may be proven danger in the
future that we have all now been exposed to for years by the time the results
are found. On the other hand, there have been cases when there is a suspected
problem and this has lead to massive losses for the providers of these
products (cucumbers) but when it was too late, this was found false but no
compensation was given to the farmer... and numerous similar cases

### One Day Websites Business Idea

Kris just registered onedaywebsites.ca, for individuals or entrepreneurs who
want a website but don't know how to. There's a set fee for WordPress setup
and hosted for a year, includes domain name for 1yr.

### Lost and Found

black nylon case, contact someone to describe it and claim it!
