---
from: 'http://web.archive.org/web/20200205115447/http://archive.ideasmeetings.org/wiki/Victoria_May16,2012'
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: May 16, 2012
author:
  display_name: cqwww
  login: cqwww
  email: kris@onedaywebsite.ca
  url: ''
author_login: cqwww
author_email: kris@onedaywebsite.ca
date: '2012-05-16'
categories:
- Victoria
tags:
- May16
- '2012'
- Victoria
---

## Agenda

* Opportunities to network with other cities KC
* Ideas claim to fame/ worthwhile project/website E
* [Membership list](http://www.ideasmeetings.org/wiki/Vic_Membership_list)
    * Kris has a friend looking for Nancy's contact info!
* [The launch of BC Ideas](http://www.aletmanski.com/al-etmanski/2012/05/bc-ideas-launches.html)
    * Perhaps invite the founders of this to the Victoria and/or Vancouver ideas meetings? 
    * Are they competition?
    * Infringing on location/ideas? Can we work with them?
    * social marketing

Kevin's crappy ideas for the week. (Choose a few)

* Programmer shortage? (Hint: no) and why scientific management chases away programmers.
* Byron Sonne set free.
* Victoria vs Beachfires.
* Why everyone should learn to code.
* Shaw EXO WIFI launches (and violates net neutrality on a claimed-temporary basis)
* Montreal protests, mask by-laws and bill C-309
* Bill C-11 moves on to third reading.
* Open Data Hackathon with Queens Printer Association on Jun 2nd. Everyone should come.
* IC BC is attacking inexperienced drivers (read youth) again, proposing to charge more to those least able to pay to lower rates for those most able to pay. Fair?
* Vivian Krause, Damage Control, American Funding orgs rewriting grants in wake of engo funding scandals. See: [http://t.co/SDZfxoUB](http://t.co/SDZfxoUB)
* City Spends 250k on 35 meter foot path. See: [http://t.co/6btSQQir](http://t.co/6btSQQir)
* Unmanned bombers. [http://t.co/CsWxxa2P](http://t.co/CsWxxa2P)

## Minutes

* networking with other cities 
    * challenge in marketing
    * aim is for monthly meetings, at least, in each city
    * people want to join Vic meetings to 'see what it's like'
    * how can we work together with other groups to collaborate on ideas/projects
    * key issue is lack of wifi
    * Kris: idea is to overcome the marketing issue
    * what about circulating a set of questions of ideas to members of Vic group (e.g. "how would you describe Ideas meeting in one sentence? what is the best thing about them? what's the coolest thing that's come out?). After surveying have synopsis/half-paragraph of what things are
    * Ideas as locomotion: hard to explain, no one wants to watch. Kinda like parliament :P
    * perhaps aim for 'innovative thinkers' in respective areas of interest (e.g. building engines, business plans, clothing and fashion, tech, etc). Biased towards action. Here to work through issues together
    * combo of change lab (people brought together to solve problems) and a think tank
    * perhaps be wary of defining 'who' comes and instead emphasize X kinds of things happen. Diverse people who are creative come together to do things together.
    * (KC off grid for next week, perhaps for the next two)

* Membership list 
    * just have a list where people ID that they are members of the club AND members of Ideas
    * aim is to show membership who is involved with Ideas

* BC Ideas Grant 
    * fill out grant for a 2K grant for internet for ideas vic
    * aim is to get grant for teh Internetz
    * should invite founders, not competition, and the more the merrier

* Social Marketing 
    * getting ready for green drinks: know anyone who is doing social marketing campaigns in town
    * talk to KM and RW for names
    * thinking of applying to small business
    * examples of campaigns + people
    * genuine participation as key; can't just broadcast but need to find way of encouraging/convincing parties to adopt eco-friendly processes
    * linking with individuals as individuals, not necessarily as a business
    * looking for interesting ideas for encouraging social change; online not a requirement

* Murry on TB of NASA info (from last week) 
    * talked with colleagues and plans on having people next week to talk about moving/accessing/dealing with TBs of open data
    * issue: how do you get what you need w/o ability to run scripts over the data set(s) themselves
    * large part of question is: how do you write the APIs?

* With regards to peerjacking, can we list companies who have patched/affected by credit card vulnerability 
    * Gov't was unwilling to translate info to journo (i.e. RW)
    * can we standardize breech notification? (next!)
    * names of companies on site - still major companies who have not patched
    * only one company has notified customers via web page notice. NO public disclosure 
        * customer = businesses running the software
    * could file complaint to OPC to see if they'd launch full process
    * Canadian parties show overly limited/incompetent: need to bring to international groups who can actually bring this into the spotlight
    * challenge is demonstration of clear and present danger of KM's vulnerability
    * is there a framework we could create for other class breaks?
    * KM sees all as a 'moot discussion' in 6 months because copyright law will require notification to all parties in the future. Would prevent anyone from possibly notifying class breaks
    * copyright as making illegal the notification of vulnerabilities in how PII is transmitted

* Idea Claim to fame 
    * how do we explain what we do that's cool
    * broadcast in the broader community
    * around marketing Ideas
    * Murray: rock video of example meeting. Year of meetings condensed into a short period of time. Also: 80s hair
    * look at how other groups (e.g. Toastmasters) have been successful/survived/thrived
    * if you want to define yourselves, then have to say what you do, and how we do it. Latter important to shareholders. 
    * on a website: do we do a whole site? what is the most valuable part of the site as it stands now? 
    * minutes of a lot of meeting really useless; even video of meeting isn't being at the meeting (why Murray talked that meetings were like locomotion)
    * minutes good where accountability is important; for these meetings they're perhaps beneficial to explain the 'feel' of what goes on. Don't necessarily care about what talk about: it's about the free flow of ideas
    * RW found minutes helpful for reference. Links to sites and stuff are helpful. 
    * KM useful as demonstrating the context of questions and fitting particular issues within a broader set of question
    * brevity often seen useful in the minutes; makes the space 'safe' to talk in
    * organize minutes in terms of the ideas? Almost like a wikipedia thing - link between ideas over time. Create a knowledge base
    * splash page? What are we, when is it, what are some questions?
    * aim is to ensure that we can link across time in the wiki 
        * doesn't this create technical challenges? With a wiki, can't we have topics that let us cross-reference between dates and topics?
        * do we record topics but tag by date?
        * perhaps have a front-end with accessible topic database with links into wiki

* Chris: What to think of leaving the net? 
    * it's art! 
    * W3C tech plenary where no wifi. People were sweating because couldn't accomplish things meant to accomplish b/c no wifi. Murray left stuff behind for a week and was interesting 
        * amazing how dependent/addicted people are on wireless/phones. MM sees as a useful exercise. Great to stay away from tech for a while to think through how those w/o tech see the world on a regular basis
        * people should get away from tech on a semi-regular basis because it means people forget about how non-tech users deal with the web
    * publishing offline mag on community issues; it's offline nature is different/interesting. Nice to have something that's away from the Internet
    * don't see benefit over leaving for year instead of a month. 
    * MM: see how computers haven't delivered on making the world easier 
        * while tech may make tasks easier, overall it seems that the cumulative effects are not to make live easier
        * but in 60s could get an operator, whereas now would yell at me for talking to the operator
        * instead of making the world a better place, has made it more difficult; forced to learn, not incentivized to learn
    * CP: interested in seeing whether author of The Verge runs into issues b/c of how computerization has shifted avenue of engaging with world and government
    * KM: without a computer, how would I have a life?
    * RW: part of the trouble is just going offline because there is so much assumed with being online. After a few weeks it's pretty easy to stay off 
        * will only be clear what he has lost once he plugs back in: what he realizes has happened and was unaware of will be of note
        * consciousness changes as you leave media. When you leave, can you be better at what you doing without reading/engaging with other media publications
        * CP on impact of mediation of the establishment/realization of the self and community

* Learn to code (damnit!) 
    * KM: everyone should learn to code b/c code is about learning logical structures. Code encourages systematic thinking, and that's something important to develop. Also learn certain kinds of math, such as differential baseN math systems. Even if never code a line in life, code will improve your daily life by bringing awareness about the world at large. 
    * MM: KM is talking about showing shadow of truth. It makes visible the dimensions of logic.
    * Coding is methodical and instantaneous. You're right/wrong. 
    * MM: questions whether code necessitates logic thinking
